docs/options.md, before:

# Tokenization options

This file documents the options of the Tokenizer interface which can be used in:

* command line client
* C++ API
* Python API

*The exact name format of each option may be different depending on the API used.*

**Terminology:**

* *joiner*: special character indicating that the surrounding tokens should be merged when detokenized
* *spacer*: special character indicating that a space should be introduced when detokenized
* *placeholder* (or *protected sequence*): sequence of characters delimited by ｟ and ｠ that should not be segmented

**Table of contents:**

1. [General](#general)
1. [Case annotation](#case-annotation)
1. [Subword encoding](#subword-encoding)
1. [Reversible tokenization](#reversible-tokenization)
1. [Segmentation](#segmentation)

## General

### `mode` (string, required)

Defines the tokenization mode:

* `conservative`: standard OpenNMT tokenization
* `aggressive`: standard OpenNMT tokenization but only keep sequences of the same character type (e.g. "2,000" is tokenized to "2 , 000", "soft-landing" to "soft - landing", etc.)
* `char`: character tokenization
* `space`: space tokenization
* `none`: no tokenization is applied and the input is passed directly to the BPE or SentencePiece model if set.

```bash
$ echo "It costs £2,000." | cli/tokenize --mode conservative
It costs £ 2,000 .

$ echo "It costs £2,000." | cli/tokenize --mode aggressive
It costs £ 2 , 000 .

$ echo "It costs £2,000." | cli/tokenize --mode char
I t c o s t s £ 2 , 0 0 0 .

$ echo "It costs £2,000." | cli/tokenize --mode space
It costs £2,000.

$ echo "It costs £2,000." | cli/tokenize --mode none
It costs £2,000.
```

**Notes:**

* `space` and `none` modes are incompatible with options listed in the [Segmentation](#segmentation) section.
* In all modes, the text is at least segmented on placeholders:

```bash
$ echo "a｟b｠c" | cli/tokenize --mode space
a ｟b｠ c

$ echo "a｟b｠c" | cli/tokenize --mode none
a ｟b｠ c
```

### `no_substitution` (boolean, default: `false`)

Disable substitution of special characters defined by the Tokenizer and found in the input text (e.g. joiners, spacers, etc.).

## Case annotation

### `case_feature` (boolean, default: `false`)

Lowercase text input and attach case information with the special separator ￨. In the Python and C++ APIs, the case feature is returned in a separate data structure.

```bash
$ echo "Hello world!" | cli/tokenize --case_feature
hello￨C world￨L !￨N
```

Possible case types:

* `C`: capitalized
* `L`: lowercase
* `U`: uppercase
* `M`: mixed
* `N`: none

The case is restored after detokenization:

```bash
$ echo 'hello￨C world￨L !￨N' | cli/detokenize --case_feature
Hello world !
```

### `case_markup` (boolean, default: `false`)

Lowercase text input and inject case markups as additional tokens. This option also enables `segment_case` and is not compatible with the "none" and "space" tokenization modes.

```bash
$ echo "Hello world!" | cli/tokenize --case_markup
｟mrk_case_modifier_C｠ hello world !

$ echo "Hello WORLD!" | cli/tokenize --case_markup
｟mrk_case_modifier_C｠ hello ｟mrk_begin_case_region_U｠ world ｟mrk_end_case_region_U｠ !

$ echo "Hello WOrld!" | cli/tokenize --case_markup
｟mrk_case_modifier_C｠ hello ｟mrk_begin_case_region_U｠ wo ｟mrk_end_case_region_U｠ rld !

$ echo "Hello WORLD!" | cli/tokenize --case_markup --bpe_model model.bpe
｟mrk_case_modifier_C｠ he llo ｟mrk_begin_case_region_U｠ wo rld ｟mrk_end_case_region_U｠ !
```

The case is restored after detokenization:

```bash
$ echo "｟mrk_case_modifier_C｠ hello world !" | cli/detokenize
Hello world !
```

### `soft_case_regions` (boolean, default: `false`)

With `case_markup`, allow uppercase regions to span over case invariant tokens to minimize the number of uppercase regions.

```bash
$ echo "U.N" | cli/tokenize --case_markup
｟mrk_case_modifier_C｠ u. ｟mrk_case_modifier_C｠ n

$ echo "U.N" | cli/tokenize --case_markup --soft_case_regions
｟mrk_begin_case_region_U｠ u. n ｟mrk_end_case_region_U｠

$ echo "A-BC/D" | cli/tokenize --case_markup
｟mrk_case_modifier_C｠ a- ｟mrk_begin_case_region_U｠ bc ｟mrk_end_case_region_U｠ / ｟mrk_case_modifier_C｠ d

$ echo "A-BC/D" | cli/tokenize --case_markup --soft_case_regions
｟mrk_begin_case_region_U｠ a- bc / d ｟mrk_end_case_region_U｠
```

## Subword encoding

### `bpe_model_path` (string, default: `""`)

Path to the BPE model.

### `bpe_dropout` (float, default: `0`)

Dropout BPE merge operations with this probability, as described in [Provilkov et al. 2019](https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/2020.acl-main.170/).

Note: BPE dropout should be used on training data only. To disable BPE dropout during inference, you can set `training=False` when calling the tokenization methods.

### `sp_model_path` (string, default: `""`)

Path to the SentencePiece model.

To replicate `spm_encode`, the tokenization mode should be `none`. If another mode is selected, SentencePiece will be used as a subtokenizer and receive tokens as inputs.

```bash
$ echo "Hello world!" | cli/tokenize --mode none --sp_model_path wmtende.model
▁H ello ▁world !

$ echo "Hello world!" | cli/tokenize --mode none --sp_model_path wmtende.model --joiner_annotate
H ￭ello world ￭!
```

### `sp_nbest_size` (int, default: `0`)

Number of candidates for the SentencePiece sampling API, as described in [Kudo 2018](https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/P18-1007/). When the value is 0, the standard SentencePiece encoding is used.

Note: Subword sampling should be used on training data only. To disable subword sampling during inference, you can set `training=False` when calling the tokenization methods.

```bash
$ echo "Hello world!" | cli/tokenize --mode none --sp_model_path wmtende.model --sp_nbest_size 64
▁H e llo ▁world !

$ echo "Hello world!" | cli/tokenize --mode none --sp_model_path wmtende.model --sp_nbest_size 64
▁H el l o ▁world !
```

### `sp_alpha` (float, default: `0.1`)

Smoothing parameter for the SentencePiece sampling API, as described in [Kudo 2018](https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/P18-1007/).

### `vocabulary_path` (string, default: `""`)

Path to the vocabulary file.

If set, subword encoders will recursively split OOV tokens into smaller units until all units are either in the vocabulary, or can not be split further.

The following line formats are accepted:

* `<token><space><frequency>`
* `<token><tab><frequency>`
* `<token>` (the token frequency is set to 1)

where `<frequency>` is a positive integer.

### `vocabulary_threshold` (int, default: `0`)

When using `vocabulary_path`, any words with a frequency lower than `vocabulary_threshold` will be treated as OOV.

## Reversible tokenization

These options inject special characters to make the tokenization reversible.

### `joiner_annotate` (boolean, default: `false`)

Mark joints with joiner characters (mutually exclusive with `spacer_annotate`).

```bash
$ echo "Hello World!" | cli/tokenize --joiner_annotate
Hello World ￭!

$ echo "It costs £2,000." | cli/tokenize --mode aggressive --joiner_annotate
It costs £￭ 2 ￭,￭ 000 ￭.
```
### `joiner` (string, default: `￭`)

When using `joiner_annotate`, the joiner to use.

```bash
$ echo "Hello World!" | cli/tokenize --joiner_annotate --joiner @@
Hello World @@!
```

### `joiner_new` (boolean, default: `false`)

When using `joiner_annotate`, make joiners independent tokens.

```bash
$ echo "Hello World!" | cli/tokenize --joiner_annotate --joiner_new
Hello World ￭ !
```

### `spacer_annotate` (boolean, default: `false`)

Mark spaces with spacer tokens (mutually exclusive with `joiner_annotate`)

```bash
$ echo "Hello World!" | cli/tokenize --spacer_annotate
Hello ▁World !
```

### `spacer_new` (boolean, default: `false`)

When using `spacer_annotate`, make spacers independent tokens.

```bash
$ echo "Hello World!" | cli/tokenize --spacer_annotate --spacer_new
Hello ▁ World !

$ echo "Hello World!" | cli/tokenize --spacer_annotate --spacer_new --mode char
H e l l o ▁ W o r l d !
```

### `preserve_placeholders` (boolean, default: `false`)

Do not attach joiners or spacers to placeholders. This should generally be enabled to not duplicate placeholders in the NMT vocabulary.

```bash
$ echo "Hello｟World｠" | cli/tokenize --joiner_annotate
Hello ￭｟World｠

$ echo "Hello｟World｠" | cli/tokenize --joiner_annotate --preserve_placeholders
Hello ￭ ｟World｠
```

### `preserve_segmented_tokens` (boolean, default: `false`)

Do not attach joiners or spacers to tokens that were segmented by:

* a `segment_*` option (see next section)

```bash
$ echo "WiFi" | cli/tokenize --segment_case --joiner_annotate
Wi￭ Fi

$ echo "WiFi" | cli/tokenize --segment_case --joiner_annotate --preserve_segmented_tokens
Wi ￭ Fi

$ echo "測試abc" | cli/tokenize --segment_alphabet Han --segment_alphabet_change \
    --joiner_annotate
測￭ 試￭ abc

$ echo "測試abc" | cli/tokenize --segment_alphabet Han --segment_alphabet_change \
    --joiner_annotate --preserve_segmented_tokens
測 ￭ 試 ￭ abc
```

* the tokenization mode "none"

```bash
$ echo "a｟b｠" | cli/tokenize --mode none --joiner_annotate
a￭ ｟b｠

$ echo "a｟b｠" | cli/tokenize --mode none --joiner_annotate --preserve_segmented_tokens
a ￭ ｟b｠
```

### `support_prior_joiners`(boolean, default: `false`)

If the input already has joiners, use these joiners as pre-tokenization marks.

```bash
$ echo "pre￭ tokenization." | cli/tokenize --joiner_annotate --support_prior_joiners \
   --mode aggressive
pre￭ tokenization ￭.
```

## Segmentation

These options enable additional segmentation rules. They are ignored when the tokenization mode is "none" or "space".

### `segment_case` (boolean, default: `false`)

Split token on case change.

```bash
$ echo "WiFi" | cli/tokenize --segment_case
Wi Fi
```

### `segment_numbers` (boolean, default: `false`)

Split numbers into single digits (requires the `aggressive` tokenization mode).

```bash
$ echo "1234" | cli/tokenize --mode aggressive --segment_numbers
1 2 3 4
```

### `segment_alphabet` (list of strings, default: `[]`)

List of alphabets for which to split all letters (can be any [Unicode script alias](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Script_(Unicode))).

```bash
$ echo "測試 abc" | cli/tokenize --segment_alphabet Han
測 試 abc

$ echo "測試 abc" | cli/tokenize --segment_alphabet Han,Latin
測 試 a b c
```

### `segment_alphabet_change` (boolean, default: `false`)

Split token on alphabet change.

```bash
$ echo "測試abc" | cli/tokenize --segment_alphabet_change
測試 abc
```

Commit message:

Add lang argument and apply locale-dependent recasing (#240)
* Add lang argument and apply locale-dependent recasing

* List required ICU components

* Fix language code check

* Reserve uppercase string later

* Use a more complete test case for Greek

* Also apply language specific lowercasing

* Fix test case input

* Improve documentation

docs/options.md, after:

# Tokenization options

This file documents the options of the Tokenizer interface which can be used in:

* command line client
* C++ API
* Python API

*The exact name format of each option may be different depending on the API used.*

**Terminology:**

* *joiner*: special character indicating that the surrounding tokens should be merged when detokenized
* *spacer*: special character indicating that a space should be introduced when detokenized
* *placeholder* (or *protected sequence*): sequence of characters delimited by ｟ and ｠ that should not be segmented

**Table of contents:**

1. [General](#general)
1. [Case annotation](#case-annotation)
1. [Subword encoding](#subword-encoding)
1. [Reversible tokenization](#reversible-tokenization)
1. [Segmentation](#segmentation)

## General

### `mode` (string, required)

Defines the tokenization mode:

* `conservative`: standard OpenNMT tokenization
* `aggressive`: standard OpenNMT tokenization but only keep sequences of the same character type (e.g. "2,000" is tokenized to "2 , 000", "soft-landing" to "soft - landing", etc.)
* `char`: character tokenization
* `space`: space tokenization
* `none`: no tokenization is applied and the input is passed directly to the BPE or SentencePiece model if set.

```bash
$ echo "It costs £2,000." | cli/tokenize --mode conservative
It costs £ 2,000 .

$ echo "It costs £2,000." | cli/tokenize --mode aggressive
It costs £ 2 , 000 .

$ echo "It costs £2,000." | cli/tokenize --mode char
I t c o s t s £ 2 , 0 0 0 .

$ echo "It costs £2,000." | cli/tokenize --mode space
It costs £2,000.

$ echo "It costs £2,000." | cli/tokenize --mode none
It costs £2,000.
```

**Notes:**

* `space` and `none` modes are incompatible with options listed in the [Segmentation](#segmentation) section.
* In all modes, the text is at least segmented on placeholders:

```bash
$ echo "a｟b｠c" | cli/tokenize --mode space
a ｟b｠ c

$ echo "a｟b｠c" | cli/tokenize --mode none
a ｟b｠ c
```

### `no_substitution` (boolean, default: `false`)

Disable substitution of special characters defined by the Tokenizer and found in the input text (e.g. joiners, spacers, etc.).

## Case annotation

### `case_feature` (boolean, default: `false`)

Lowercase text input and attach case information with the special separator ￨. In the Python and C++ APIs, the case feature is returned in a separate data structure.

```bash
$ echo "Hello world!" | cli/tokenize --case_feature
hello￨C world￨L !￨N
```

Possible case types:

* `C`: capitalized
* `L`: lowercase
* `U`: uppercase
* `M`: mixed
* `N`: none

The case is restored after detokenization:

```bash
$ echo 'hello￨C world￨L !￨N' | cli/detokenize --case_feature
Hello world !
```

### `case_markup` (boolean, default: `false`)

Lowercase text input and inject case markups as additional tokens. This option also enables `segment_case` and is not compatible with the "none" and "space" tokenization modes.

```bash
$ echo "Hello world!" | cli/tokenize --case_markup
｟mrk_case_modifier_C｠ hello world !

$ echo "Hello WORLD!" | cli/tokenize --case_markup
｟mrk_case_modifier_C｠ hello ｟mrk_begin_case_region_U｠ world ｟mrk_end_case_region_U｠ !

$ echo "Hello WOrld!" | cli/tokenize --case_markup
｟mrk_case_modifier_C｠ hello ｟mrk_begin_case_region_U｠ wo ｟mrk_end_case_region_U｠ rld !

$ echo "Hello WORLD!" | cli/tokenize --case_markup --bpe_model model.bpe
｟mrk_case_modifier_C｠ he llo ｟mrk_begin_case_region_U｠ wo rld ｟mrk_end_case_region_U｠ !
```

The case is restored after detokenization:

```bash
$ echo "｟mrk_case_modifier_C｠ hello world !" | cli/detokenize
Hello world !
```

### `soft_case_regions` (boolean, default: `false`)

With `case_markup`, allow uppercase regions to span over case invariant tokens to minimize the number of uppercase regions.

```bash
$ echo "U.N" | cli/tokenize --case_markup
｟mrk_case_modifier_C｠ u. ｟mrk_case_modifier_C｠ n

$ echo "U.N" | cli/tokenize --case_markup --soft_case_regions
｟mrk_begin_case_region_U｠ u. n ｟mrk_end_case_region_U｠

$ echo "A-BC/D" | cli/tokenize --case_markup
｟mrk_case_modifier_C｠ a- ｟mrk_begin_case_region_U｠ bc ｟mrk_end_case_region_U｠ / ｟mrk_case_modifier_C｠ d

$ echo "A-BC/D" | cli/tokenize --case_markup --soft_case_regions
｟mrk_begin_case_region_U｠ a- bc / d ｟mrk_end_case_region_U｠
```

### `lang` (string, default: `""`)

[ISO language code](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_ISO_639-1_codes) of the text passed to the tokenizer. When set, the tokenizer may enable language-specific rules to improve the tokenization or detokenization correctness. For example, we use the [ICU library](http://site.icu-project.org/) to enable [language-specific case mappings](https://unicode-org.github.io/icu/userguide/transforms/casemappings.html#full-language-specific-case-mapping) such as the following:

* In Dutch, the "ij" digraph becomes "IJ" even with capitalization:

```bash
$ echo "｟mrk_case_modifier_C｠ ijssel" | cli/detokenize --lang nl
IJssel
```

* In Greek, most vowels loose their accent when the whole word is in uppercase:

```bash
$ echo "｟mrk_begin_case_region_U｠ γύρισε σπίτι ｟mrk_end_case_region_U｠" | cli/detokenize --lang el
ΓΥΡΙΣΕ ΣΠΙΤΙ
```

* In Greek, the lowercase version of sigma "Σ" depends on the context:

```bash
$ echo "ΣΙΓΜΑ ΤΕΛΙΚΟΣ" | cli/tokenize --lang el --case_markup --soft_case_regions
｟mrk_begin_case_region_U｠ σιγμα τελικος ｟mrk_end_case_region_U｠
```

## Subword encoding

### `bpe_model_path` (string, default: `""`)

Path to the BPE model.

### `bpe_dropout` (float, default: `0`)

Dropout BPE merge operations with this probability, as described in [Provilkov et al. 2019](https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/2020.acl-main.170/).

Note: BPE dropout should be used on training data only. To disable BPE dropout during inference, you can set `training=False` when calling the tokenization methods.

### `sp_model_path` (string, default: `""`)

Path to the SentencePiece model.

To replicate `spm_encode`, the tokenization mode should be `none`. If another mode is selected, SentencePiece will be used as a subtokenizer and receive tokens as inputs.

```bash
$ echo "Hello world!" | cli/tokenize --mode none --sp_model_path wmtende.model
▁H ello ▁world !

$ echo "Hello world!" | cli/tokenize --mode none --sp_model_path wmtende.model --joiner_annotate
H ￭ello world ￭!
```

### `sp_nbest_size` (int, default: `0`)

Number of candidates for the SentencePiece sampling API, as described in [Kudo 2018](https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/P18-1007/). When the value is 0, the standard SentencePiece encoding is used.

Note: Subword sampling should be used on training data only. To disable subword sampling during inference, you can set `training=False` when calling the tokenization methods.

```bash
$ echo "Hello world!" | cli/tokenize --mode none --sp_model_path wmtende.model --sp_nbest_size 64
▁H e llo ▁world !

$ echo "Hello world!" | cli/tokenize --mode none --sp_model_path wmtende.model --sp_nbest_size 64
▁H el l o ▁world !
```

### `sp_alpha` (float, default: `0.1`)

Smoothing parameter for the SentencePiece sampling API, as described in [Kudo 2018](https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/P18-1007/).

### `vocabulary_path` (string, default: `""`)

Path to the vocabulary file.

If set, subword encoders will recursively split OOV tokens into smaller units until all units are either in the vocabulary, or can not be split further.

The following line formats are accepted:

* `<token><space><frequency>`
* `<token><tab><frequency>`
* `<token>` (the token frequency is set to 1)

where `<frequency>` is a positive integer.

### `vocabulary_threshold` (int, default: `0`)

When using `vocabulary_path`, any words with a frequency lower than `vocabulary_threshold` will be treated as OOV.

## Reversible tokenization

These options inject special characters to make the tokenization reversible.

### `joiner_annotate` (boolean, default: `false`)

Mark joints with joiner characters (mutually exclusive with `spacer_annotate`).

```bash
$ echo "Hello World!" | cli/tokenize --joiner_annotate
Hello World ￭!

$ echo "It costs £2,000." | cli/tokenize --mode aggressive --joiner_annotate
It costs £￭ 2 ￭,￭ 000 ￭.
```
### `joiner` (string, default: `￭`)

When using `joiner_annotate`, the joiner to use.

```bash
$ echo "Hello World!" | cli/tokenize --joiner_annotate --joiner @@
Hello World @@!
```

### `joiner_new` (boolean, default: `false`)

When using `joiner_annotate`, make joiners independent tokens.

```bash
$ echo "Hello World!" | cli/tokenize --joiner_annotate --joiner_new
Hello World ￭ !
```

### `spacer_annotate` (boolean, default: `false`)

Mark spaces with spacer tokens (mutually exclusive with `joiner_annotate`)

```bash
$ echo "Hello World!" | cli/tokenize --spacer_annotate
Hello ▁World !
```

### `spacer_new` (boolean, default: `false`)

When using `spacer_annotate`, make spacers independent tokens.

```bash
$ echo "Hello World!" | cli/tokenize --spacer_annotate --spacer_new
Hello ▁ World !

$ echo "Hello World!" | cli/tokenize --spacer_annotate --spacer_new --mode char
H e l l o ▁ W o r l d !
```

### `preserve_placeholders` (boolean, default: `false`)

Do not attach joiners or spacers to placeholders. This should generally be enabled to not duplicate placeholders in the NMT vocabulary.

```bash
$ echo "Hello｟World｠" | cli/tokenize --joiner_annotate
Hello ￭｟World｠

$ echo "Hello｟World｠" | cli/tokenize --joiner_annotate --preserve_placeholders
Hello ￭ ｟World｠
```

### `preserve_segmented_tokens` (boolean, default: `false`)

Do not attach joiners or spacers to tokens that were segmented by:

* a `segment_*` option (see next section)

```bash
$ echo "WiFi" | cli/tokenize --segment_case --joiner_annotate
Wi￭ Fi

$ echo "WiFi" | cli/tokenize --segment_case --joiner_annotate --preserve_segmented_tokens
Wi ￭ Fi

$ echo "測試abc" | cli/tokenize --segment_alphabet Han --segment_alphabet_change \
    --joiner_annotate
測￭ 試￭ abc

$ echo "測試abc" | cli/tokenize --segment_alphabet Han --segment_alphabet_change \
    --joiner_annotate --preserve_segmented_tokens
測 ￭ 試 ￭ abc
```

* the tokenization mode "none"

```bash
$ echo "a｟b｠" | cli/tokenize --mode none --joiner_annotate
a￭ ｟b｠

$ echo "a｟b｠" | cli/tokenize --mode none --joiner_annotate --preserve_segmented_tokens
a ￭ ｟b｠
```

### `support_prior_joiners`(boolean, default: `false`)

If the input already has joiners, use these joiners as pre-tokenization marks.

```bash
$ echo "pre￭ tokenization." | cli/tokenize --joiner_annotate --support_prior_joiners \
   --mode aggressive
pre￭ tokenization ￭.
```

## Segmentation

These options enable additional segmentation rules. They are ignored when the tokenization mode is "none" or "space".

### `segment_case` (boolean, default: `false`)

Split token on case change.

```bash
$ echo "WiFi" | cli/tokenize --segment_case
Wi Fi
```

### `segment_numbers` (boolean, default: `false`)

Split numbers into single digits (requires the `aggressive` tokenization mode).

```bash
$ echo "1234" | cli/tokenize --mode aggressive --segment_numbers
1 2 3 4
```

### `segment_alphabet` (list of strings, default: `[]`)

List of alphabets for which to split all letters (can be any [Unicode script alias](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Script_(Unicode))).

```bash
$ echo "測試 abc" | cli/tokenize --segment_alphabet Han
測 試 abc

$ echo "測試 abc" | cli/tokenize --segment_alphabet Han,Latin
測 試 a b c
```

### `segment_alphabet_change` (boolean, default: `false`)

Split token on alphabet change.

```bash
$ echo "測試abc" | cli/tokenize --segment_alphabet_change
測試 abc
```
